# Metabolic-Pathway-Class-Prediction
Designing reaction predictors for synthesising novel molecules requires the knowledge of the processes and structural mappings between molecules and pathway classes. The problem of predicting classes of metabolic pathways in which a given biochemical compound participates is addressed in this project work. We employ a hybrid graph based deep learning model called Graph Convolutional networks (GCN) to predict the metabolic pathway classes of the molecules. Unlike previously used machine learning approaches for this problem, our model extracts important shape features using RDKit directly from input SMILES representations, which are atom-bond specifications of the chemical structures that make up the molecules.

Our architecture extends to multi-classification of compounds into several pathway classes, unlike previous pathway prediction methods that do not naturally extend to multi-class classification. We have made appropriate changes to the GCN architecture to accommodate multi-class classification. In the project, we focus on the characteristics that are most important in identifying pathway groups. We also found that the shape features generated by the GCN architecture can predict the values of the top-ranked features for a given molecule, indicating that the GCN approach is a data-driven alternative to time-consuming expert-driven feature engineering in chemical classification applications. Finally, we build a web application where user can enter the query compound and the class prediction results from our trained GCN model will be displayed.
